hmi_vm/README.md, before:

# ScadaBR
ScadaBR is both an HMI and historian

#### HMI
![hmi](figures/scadaHMIScaled.PNG)

#### Historian
![historian](figures/scadaHistorianScaled.PNG)

### Installation
1. [Install ScadaBR on a virtual machine](https://www.openplcproject.com/reference-installing-scadabr)

2. On your host machine, point your browser to the ScadaBR web interface.  The URL should be displayed on your ScadaBR virtual machine terminal

![url](figures/scadaURL.PNG)

3. Click the "Import/Export" icon

![importIcon](figures/scadaImport.PNG)

4. In the "Import Project (Upload)" field, click "Choose File" to upload the .zip project file

![chooseFile](figures/scadaChooseFileHighlighted.PNG)

5. Click "Send"

6. Click "Import"

7. To point ScadaBR to the IP address of the PLC, click on the "Data Source" icon, the "Edit Source" icon, and then edit the IP, as shown in the below screenshots

![dataSource](figures/dataSourcesHighlighted.PNG)

![IP](figures/scadaIPHighlighted.PNG)

### Usage
The default username and password are "admin"

Click the "Watchlist" button to view historian data.  Click the "Graphical Views" button to view the HMI.

![historianHMIIcons](figures/scadaHistAndHMI.PNG)

Commit message:

stress the importance of using bridged adapter

hmi_vm/README.md, after:

# ScadaBR
ScadaBR is both an HMI and historian

#### HMI
![hmi](figures/scadaHMIScaled.PNG)

#### Historian
![historian](figures/scadaHistorianScaled.PNG)

### Installation
1. [Install ScadaBR on a virtual machine](https://www.openplcproject.com/reference-installing-scadabr), being sure to use a Bridged Adapter for the network adapter.

2. On your host machine, point your browser to the ScadaBR web interface.  The URL should be displayed on your ScadaBR virtual machine terminal

![url](figures/scadaURL.PNG)

3. Click the "Import/Export" icon

![importIcon](figures/scadaImport.PNG)

4. In the "Import Project (Upload)" field, click "Choose File" to upload the .zip project file

![chooseFile](figures/scadaChooseFileHighlighted.PNG)

5. Click "Send"

6. Click "Import"

7. To point ScadaBR to the IP address of the PLC, click on the "Data Source" icon, the "Edit Source" icon, and then edit the IP, as shown in the below screenshots

![dataSource](figures/dataSourcesHighlighted.PNG)

![IP](figures/scadaIPHighlighted.PNG)

### Usage
The default username and password are "admin"

Click the "Watchlist" button to view historian data.  Click the "Graphical Views" button to view the HMI.

![historianHMIIcons](figures/scadaHistAndHMI.PNG)
